[Music]
foreign
next one okay so i have pedophilic
thoughts i fight against them every day
please advise okay so once again
disclaimer andy
all right so like a reminder that you
know what we're doing is commenting on
general
mental health information as opposed to
um you know offering detailed advice
so uh we're gonna just
you know this is also like is this tos
concerning okay let's just let we won't
read the whole post
but i just want to acknowledge um you
know that that this is there and we're
going to talk a little bit about this
okay so
um so that this is where like the first
thing that i want you all to understand
is like
when we think about who we are what is
your mind
so the mind is a thought-generating
machine
right and this is interesting because
like what i would describe this person
as having maybe they have
pedophilic thoughts but let's call them
intrusive thoughts
right so i'm going to sort of generalize
this a little bit so sometimes our mind
generates thoughts that like we don't
like
and so if we stop and think about them
then what happens is we feel like
morally deficient for our mind
generating
particular thoughts whereas it like in
my personal view and when i work with
people who have intrusive thoughts that
are
ego dystonic and we'll get to that what
that means in a second which means that
the thoughts that they don't like
i don't consider that person to be
morally deficient in fact
what i i actually consider that person
to be like like i respect them morally
because
they recognize that there are particular
thoughts that they have a moral issue
with and they try to
not give in to those thoughts which
actually like earns me respect or my
respect
um and because when i think about you
know what is respectable it's actually
like not giving into your mind right
it's being in control
whether it's sort of like and that's the
goal that you know most of what i would
do as an addiction psychiatrist is
teaching people how to be in control of
their mind
instead of their mind controlling them
which then begs the question of like
what are you if you aren't your mind and
all that kind of stuff
but i just want you all to understand
that your mind just generates thoughts
right like so if i like if you're
walking down the street and you see like
you know yesterday i was driving down
the street and i saw a turtle in the
road and then i started thinking about
like the turtle and oh i gotta find a
place like
i gotta find a body of water and like
pick up the turtle and
dropped it off in a stream somewhere so
like the thoughts in my mind are
generated by
all kinds of random stuff i'm not
responsible for thinking about a turtle
because like i was just going down the
straight
street and i saw a turtle right and the
turtle was stranded so then my mind
started thinking about the turtle
if a friend of mine messages me and says
hey you should check out this clip from
like
you know this tournament that was
awesome and then if i like then i'm
thinking about the tournament i'm
thinking about the clip and i watch the
clip and then my mind is thinking about
that
so we're not really responsible
for what our mind generates
what we're responsible for is how we act
in
in response to the thoughts that we
generate
and as a psychiatrist i work with a lot
of people who have
negative intrusive thoughts so sometimes
they can be sexual in nature
sometimes people will have thoughts of
violence sometimes they'll have thoughts
of like you know just all kinds of
random stuff
they don't want to think and what you
all need to understand is that the mind
is just like a thought-generating
machine so it's just going to like
generate
thoughts that doesn't make you a bad
person
if you are having negative intrusive
thoughts i think the right move
absolutely is to go see a licensed
mental health professional
this is definitely something that i
would say that
can be so painful and the consequences
can actually be
like quite severe depending on what your
thoughts are and if you lose control of
those
that i definitely think it behooves you
to get some
assistance in sort of achieving your
goals of like not
you know propagating these thoughts or
giving in to them
so i think that like we have trained
professionals and it's not about shame
it doesn't make you a bad person it's
just like
you know you know you you definitely
want to get as much help as you can so
that you don't have to feel that way
and the other thing that comes with
intrusive thoughts is intense feelings
of shame and guilt
right because we feel guilty for
thinking these things
whereas once again our mind just
generates thoughts
so i think it really like people deserve
to you know work through that guilt and
be free of that
and your mind can generate all kinds of
thoughts it doesn't necessarily make you
a bad person i think what makes you a
bad person
is how you act right we have we have a
jedi and we have a sith lord inside
all of us it's just like which side do
you give in to like that's where the
money is
that's what's important the last thing
that i will say when it comes to
intrusive thoughts is that there
are ways in my experience to cultivate a
particular kind of thinking
so in this case you know and this is
where things get complicated but a lot
of times the thoughts that our mind
generates
come from a particular experience or
incident or something like that a lot of
times thoughts relating to
you know pedophilia and things like that
sometimes those can be related to
traumatic experiences in childhood i've
certainly seen that
and the good news is that like as you
work through those kinds of things
that the thoughts can actually lessen
and even completely go away
um i certainly do believe i mean so we
do this a lot in in the dimension of
yoga
is that we cultivate a particular kind
of thinking
so if you think about where do the
thoughts in your mind come from
some of them come from inside your mind
and some of them come from outside your
mind
so if i have a bunch of friends who are
playing a particular game so like
everyone has been playing valorent
recently
my mind is going to be thinking about
valorant right so that thought comes
from the outside
so as you cultivate a particular kind of
environment
you can start to sow particular seeds in
your mind
that will then bear fruit of a
particular kind of thoughts
if i'm thinking about valorent and
playing valor and like hanging out with
people who are talking about valorent
my mind is going to be thinking about
valorent many hours of the day
whereas if i'm you know at a cooking
camp with a bunch of people who love to
cook and we're all experimenting recipes
that's what i'm going to think about and
then a month from now
when my mind sort of like remembers what
i've been doing it'll either think about
cooking or it'll think about valerian
depending on what i sort of do in the
interim
so just to kind of like summarize the
first thing is that
generally speaking sometimes people have
something called
intrusive thoughts so intrusive thoughts
or thoughts that you don't want to
happen and can't stop
these i don't think make you a bad
person so like
some people have intrusive thoughts
sometimes intrusive thoughts are a sign
of something like obsessive-compulsive
disorder or ocd
right and sometimes especially in people
like i've had
patients for example who will get
diagnosed with ocd and will have very
negative thoughts
and then as we treat the ocd the
negative thoughts actually decrease
and then like they can sort of be free
of them so there's actually treatment
for this kind of stuff and a lot of
times
like this person is thinking like i am a
pedophile like the problem here is that
they've diagnosed themselves
whereas you know sexual thoughts that
are inappropriate are not a diagnosis
they're a symptom that could come from
any manner of places
it could come from traumatic experiences
in childhood
it could even be a normal variant of the
human population we don't really know
it could also be related to compulsive
disorder
there are a lot of different things that
we don't really understand
about the nature of these thoughts and
so it's really important to see
a licensed professional that will help
you work through these things so that
you can get the appropriate
treatment um the the last thing to kind
of consider is that you can
cultivate your thoughts in a particular
direction
so so this is where like i recognize
that this like maybe we get a temporary
ban like if we do that's
you know hopefully we don't get
permanent banned but you know if we get
a temporary ban like i wouldn't be upset
about that like i think it's reasonable
that
you know there are limits and tos
concerns and things like that
and this is the challenge that we face
right is that like talk but like the
problem is that these people are out
there
and they're actually like way more
common than you think these experiences
are really common
so the challenge that i face is like
what do we do about this
right because people are like having
these thoughts out there
and they're super ashamed of it they
feel like really bad about it like
there's like
nowhere to talk about it and it's my
experience that like sometimes you have
to face
difficult situations to like work
through them so that you can like
healthily move past it and i don't know
how we do that without acknowledging
that these things exist and trying to
support these people and understand
these phenomena
and if we get banned for that you know
hopefully not famous last words like
you know i'm not gonna argue against
that i think it would be appropriate
like i could understand the case that we
get banned for having this discussion
here but at the same time like
you know these things happen and it's
important for people to recognize that
it's not that isolated of experience
intrusive thoughts happen a lot and
there are
all kinds of methods that you can get
help for this it doesn't mean that
you're a morally deficient person
just go see a licensed professional you
will be amazed
by what people can do for you if you
reach out for help
okay so some people are asking isn't a
lot of it rooted in being sexually
assaulted as a child
so this question is important because
i want you all to understand that when
you have a case like this
we don't know where it's rooted i want
y'all to understand as a clinician
there's something called a differential
diagnosis
so if you have intrusive thoughts there
are a number of different things which
could be causing them
that's why it's important to not jump to
conclusions and that's why it's
important to see a licensed mental
health
professional because we could talk i can
talk to you generally about intrusive
thoughts
but i would be doing a huge disservice
if i said that these intrusive thoughts
come from this place and only this place
because my experience as a clinician is
that intrusive thoughts
can have their origin in many different
areas
and that's why it behooves you you
deserve to go work with an individual
person
who can help you find the actual origin
of where these thoughts are coming from
and sometimes those can be from things
like sexual assault and childhood
okay
can we get a behoove emote